>> Kent C. Dodds: So
this is where this lives.
And I actually really strongly recommend
that you have a file like this.
Utilities that are specific
to testing this application.
In here,
I have a couple of utilities that I employ
from React testing library and
I use those.
And then I just expose it a couple of
useful things that we might use through
the application.
So it's almost like your own little node
module, like your utility known module
that you can pretend that it's published
on npm, but it doesn't really have to be.
Okay, so this renderWithRouter, it take
some UI, so React create element some jsx.
It also takes some options.
And here we have route
is one of those options.
Because we're mounting the entire
application with the router,
we can initialize the router
to the specific route.
That'll default to the home, but
you can actually initialize it to be on
the registration or on the editor, or
wherever you want the app
to be at that time.
What's cool about rendering
with the whole router like this
is that you can verify that your route
configuration is set up properly.
So your route exact path equals slash and
if you test it like this, then you
know that those paths actually work.
And it's pretty easy to set up.
Because we're not actually in the browser,
we're going to create memory history.
And that'll simulate the history API,
well, actually, it's coming from history.
So this is how the react router docs work.
They're using the memory history.
So it keeps track of the back and forward
and all of the stack of history in memory.
And so we initialize it with the route,
so that that's where it is right now.
And then we provide that
history to our router and
then render the UI within the router.
So all the links and everything will be
referencing this instance of the router,
whatever it sticks in the context.
And then we render that
with react-testing-library,
we get back our utils.
And then we return the utils.
And then also, this is one of
the reasons why I suggest having
utility functions like this, because there
are some things that you're going to want
to do in several of your tests.
For example, when we open up this in
the first place, if we go to the deployed
version, you're gonna see that
loading happening right there.
What's happening is, actually, it's
starting up the server cuz it was asleep.
So it'll take a second.
When we refresh it,
it'll happen really quick.
But anyway, we start out with the loading.
And when I boot up the application,
when I render it in the first place,
it's gonna try to make a request to say,
is this users logged in and
let me get all the users and
all the posts and everything.
And so we're going to wait for
that loading to go away,
just like your user would.
A users know that the app is
loaded when the loading goes away.
And so
that because it's a really common thing,
we're exposing a finishLoading
function that people can call.
And so that you don't have
to have basically this code.
It's just a little abstruction that
you make yourself and you can use.
And that's one of the reasons why I say
every project should have a test-utils
file for little stuff like this that's
kinda specific to that project.
But other than that,
this operates just like the render
method from react-testing-libraries.
So you'll have your getByText,
your getBy so
on and so forth, so there's that.
And so we render with the router,
we render a full app and
we get our container and all those things.
Got finish by loading.
That's the first thing we're
gonna do is like, just wait for
that loading thing to go away.
And thhen we'll go ahead and
click on the register link.
So we're gonna find that,
here let's see what we got.
Let's log out.
So we'll click on the register link.
That'll pop up, open this form, and
we'll verify that the window
location href is registered.
So that kind of is confirming, yes,
that when I click on that register link,
it's taking me to the right page.
And then we fill out the form, so
I'm just gonna generate a login form.
I don't care what they are.
Get the username and passwords.
So this actually is very similar to the
test that you just wrote for the login.
And that brings up a question
that you can ask later.
Please do ask it later about, okay, so
now we're covering the same thing twice,
we're testing the same thing twice.
Where does it make the most sense?
Ask me about that later.
So we're gonna get those,
all the things that we need.
And then before we submit the form,
we're going to go ahead and
mock out the implementation of post.
And I'm sorry I couldn't
make this any simpler.
But you'll probably just wanna
look at this and copy and
paste how this is working.
And then you can talk to me after or
something.
Ping me on Twitter or
something to figure out what's going on or
you can just look into the [INAUDIBLE]
yourself and figure out what it's doing.
But anyway, you wanna get the post,
you wanna mock its implementation, so
that you can return a token.
In your case, you'll be logging
in with an existing user, so
you'll use that user's token,
or you'll just return.
You can generate a token as well.
Just return that token when
you're making a post request.
So that's what's happening here,
and then we submit.
And then we wait for the loading
to go away, so once you log in,
it takes to the loading screen.
We wait for that to go away.
And then we can make some assertions.
We assert that the post was indeed called.
And then it was called
with the right arguments.
So that fake login form, that fake user,
and we call the auth/register endpoint.
And then ensure that, after that happen,
we set the token so
now the user can be logged in.
And they refresh the pages,
they're still logged in.
We're no longer on the registration page.
We could add an assertion that
it only is slash, I suppose.
And then we have a getbytestID
because this is a username display.
There's not really like
any aria attributes or
anything relevent that we could select.
So we're doing a test ID
to get the text content.
And then make sure that the logout appears
so actually we can log in with TIL, TIL.
And then actually, no,
here, we'll register.
We're doing registration anyway, TIL, TIL.
And loading will go away, and
then that's the user display and
that's the logout button, okay?
And that's pretty much,
as a manual tester, what we just did,
that's how I verify that it works.
Okay, my username is displayed there and
the logout button is there.
All right, and that's it.
So I'm gonna set you free for
about a half hour.
Maybe not quite that long.
Maybe we'll do 20 minutes, and
you'll be doing the login.
So it's client/src/_tests_app.login.todo.